Two rd effectors.
In this video we'll cover the effector two RD component and different types of effector two DS.
We'll also play with effector two RDS inside the Unity ed.
The effector is the component that directs the forces of physics in your project.
When game object colliders come into contact with each other.
As you can see in this setup, we have a transform, a collider and an effector component all added
to the same game object.
A few common ones that I use in this course are buoyancy effector to d to make objects float as in the
first illustration and surface effector to DD to create a conveyer belt feel as you see in the second
picture, these green arrows indicate more or less the direction of movement that is applied to the
objects.
You can also use the others area effector Platform Effector Point effector for different types of effects.
If we select a game object with an effector, we can open the inspector window to look at all of its
components.
If we look at the point effector to DH, we can browse its properties.
There's a lot of different properties now.
Each type of effective CD has unique properties, but let's take a look at the point effector to DH.
First, let's take a look at the collider itself.
We have to set is trigger is true and used by effector is true.
This will allow that collider to work together with our effector to DH.
When we focus on the effector itself, we have a collider mask.
The mask which is optional, is used to select which specific layers will be affected.
So you can have this effect happen only on some groups of your objects and force.
This is the magnitude distances and other details of the force that will be applied.
Let's do some demos first.
Let's take a look at the point effector to DH Begin.
Seen some of the scenes in this course.
Have an underscore begin.
This is our starting point and we'll add some code and some assets as we go for each scene with a underscore
begin.
There's an equivalent scene with underscore complete and you can look at that to see the final results
in this scene.
We'll play it.
We'll create a new BOM Sprite, add the point effector to DX and Circle Collider to DX, activate the
point effector to DH when we click the mouse and then we'll play the scene again to see the end result.
In this video we have a bonus assignment.
This is something if you want to go deeper into the topic, you can in this one.
There's a various effector scene.
You can play the scene, see the Spanish script, the details of it are out of scope of this course,
but take a look.
It will spawn new objects every few seconds just to populate our scene and create a little chaos.
You can play with the properties of each of the effector two DS.
Let's open up the next scene.
Point effector to begin.
What we're going to do is we're going to create a new bomb sprite with a point effector on it, and
then we'll let our mouse clicking trigger the explosion.
Well we've added is a rigid body to DD and two different circle Collider's One circle collider will
be for collision detection.
The other circle collider will be used as a trigger for the point effector.
We'll set the force magnitude here to be something high.
And then we'll make the trigger large enough.
The collider is now large enough that it will cause damage to everything within the collider.
Let's go ahead and run the scene as is.
We immediately see there's a massive explosion because these objects were within the circle Collider
and immediately got a big boost of constant force.
Let's turn the force off and instead use the mouse to trigger the explosion.
This is a custom script that I created.
It takes the effector to DD, and then it has a series of booleans.
We first want to disable the point effector on awake, so I'll leave that unchecked.
And then each time we fire this, we wanted to automatically toggle back off.
That way the explosion happens over the course of one frame.
Let's give it a try.
There's no explosion yet.
And when I click, we'll get a one frame explosion.
It's subtle, but it works.
I can click again.
And more.
Eventually, the objects will be outside of the collider.
That's it.
Let's take a look at the code.
This is a custom script that I created.
So we take the effector to DD in the few booleans.
Inside the awake we trigger the enabled on or off depending on our boolean.
When the enabled is off, the effector does not work.
Then on update we listen for mouse click and when mouse click occurs we toggle the enabled.
That's it.
In the next video, two D joints.
We'll cover the joint, two D component and the different types of joint two DS.
We'll also play with them inside the unity ed.